hello everybody it's great to be here
this afternoon i hope
to be well a little bit interesting
otherwise you're gonna take a nap
so hopefully
you'll like it
so what i'm going to do today is to
share with all of you our story
how we manage
how we manage to go from being
irrelevant because we were very small to
the leader in the market in a few years
so this is the story of the last seven
years now when i when i joined the red
points until now
and
what i'm gonna do is to to share with
you what worked and we didn't work which
is as interesting
as you all know
let me give you some context here well
this is evident right it's nothing that
you don't know the world is turning to
e-commerce
more than ever
just look at these numbers
in the last over the period of the last
seven years that is when bread points
have been
operative in the markets and
the retail e-commerce sales worldwide
have gone grown
five times
five times over the last seven years
unluckily the e-commerce fraud
is growing as fast and exponentially
as the e-commerce and the online cells
and not only the online fraud of course
the counterfeiting the credential
sharing the illegal content the digital
impersonations
all kind of fraud
and
well
just let me give you some examples here
of this
look at the increasing counterfeits from
2019 to 2021.
in fashion
it's been 33
look at sporting goods 82
homework and toys almost 76
so
what do we do with this okay there's red
points and this is what we do you know
our mission is to make the internet a
safer place for brands and consumers
one of the things we do
is to fight this the the the complete
the
scammers and the ghost competitors
those ones that they're stealing the
revenue
from the brands and the consumers
and we return to them
we're helping them to fight this
terrible issue and how are we doing it
well we designed a solution we put tech
we put tech in a space where there was
not technology previously
of course
there were other competitors
and those competitors they were doing
services they were doing consulting and
they were doing a lot of man-powered uh
processes and we came with technology we
came with a disruptive um solution
but we were the newest we were
irrelevant as i was telling you so what
did we do
what was the key
to
to be to become the leader in the market
it was a journey
and here's the journey so
in the first two years when i joined the
when i joined the the startup when i
joined the initial founder
what we did is to
um
figure it out now figure figure out how
our proposal was going to be successful
in a market where there were other
competitors addressing the very large
companies
and we found a blue ocean
we thought it was a blue ocean and it
well it turned to be a blue ocean so
as i was saying our competitors they
were selling to very big companies to
the larger companies in the world now
brands that you all know
but we said listen everybody has this
problem online not only the very big
ones also the small companies also the
minion companies also companies in some
verticals they didn't they don't even
know it we just had to surf the internet
and find a problem so we decided to
address the smb market
and it was a blue ocean because no one
was doing it
we built our platform in a way that it
was very easy to use for those kind of
companies
and another thing that we did is
well
we
are going to be so big we're going to be
so global that spain for us is not the
market the market is the world we
thought very big from the very beginning
so instead of starting
from spain now in spain we decided to
divide
the world in industries so for us the
market were the industries it was not
about spain it was not about us it was
not about france it was about industries
so we wanted to address the toys
industry or
the
lighting industry we have the list of
all the companies and we didn't even
care where they were we were selling to
companies in australia in scandinavia
in usa so from the very very beginning
our company was
like a very global no you'll see you'll
see that uh later and it had all kind of
uh
people from all countries in the world
with this what we did is we proved the
market feed not only the product feed
but the market feed and this is why
in the next years
we decided to fund the company
properly to become the markets i mean
the the leaders of the market
because we always wanted to be that the
leaders of the market we were thinking
big from the very first day
and in 2016 and 2017 we welcomed our
investors mangrove northern and arrows
that
funded the company properly to grow
exponentially
well now it looks like ebitda is sexier
than growth but
back then growth it was all about growth
and let me tell you something for
smaller companies here is still about
growth i mean when a company
is uh
is young and is very young
you have to prove the market fee you
have to prove the product fit you have
to grow a lot
so you can you can show that you can be
a big company
sometime and you're gonna need a funding
uh the your your finance strategy
has to be
going parallel to your company strategy
after that
we closed in 2019 another fundraising
with summit so the company was already
uh funded uh with uh 42 million dollars
we closed 72
million dollars this is what we raised
but 20 million went to secondary
and
uh
this is how we could grow to more than
650 clients by the end of 2019. that was
basic for us
and of course we had clients in us in
all europe australia japan and we opened
our offices in new york and select city
later beijing
and 2021 again more growth growth and
now we have more than a thousand clients
and we can call ourselves the leaders of
the market but not only that the market
says we are the leaders this is how
you know you are the leaders no because
they address you as the leader and
[Music]
with this and you will i will tell you
later we decided to build a new category
so we are the ones that we are not only
building a company we are also building
a category this came in 2021 but i'll
explain you later
the journey was not always easy
let's start with the wins
and uh later
i will tell you also the mistakes
because we we made a quite a good number
of mistakes too
what did work what were our wings well
the first one the global approach from
the very first day this is what i was
telling you know we were thinking big
from the very first day
uh
sometimes when you start a company and
when you when just start your startup
and you make your numbers the numbers
are very humble
the numbers are low i was uh talking uh
i was talking uh to a to a young company
in their very fir first i mean in their
very early days uh not long ago
and i was
telling them i come on you can do much
more i'm sure you can sell much more why
are you putting these numbers here
you should be thinking big
let's think big let's think global and
as i was telling you from the very first
day we thought global we were not
thinking only in spain and this is how
we built the teams that uh that we built
and we approached the clients that we
approach inverted in industries by
industries like i was telling you and
today 60 of our revenues come from u.s
and let me tell you something uh
advisors that we talk to they say that
this is quite rare for us for a spanish
company of course and for a european
company that has the headquarters in
europe 60 of our revenues come from u.s
and this is because from the very first
day we thought that we could do it and
we went uh uh global the second win
the product evolution
innovation is in our dna we never
stop evolving our product
but
we focus a lot on the section
we focus a lot on execution we
innovate think in always about the
client and this is
how we've even built a team that is
called innovation that is transversal
doesn't belong to product or to
technology the innovation team
works together with products but it
works with cells and we work it works
with operations and even with finance
and this innovation team what it does is
to cover
all the processes and innovate in all
the processes
from sales from go to market to
operations and of course product now
product2 but
this is something that we've never
stopped we started with
one of the infringements now that it was
anti-piracy but
we
soon start building other modules and
addressing other kind of infringements
because as you saw before what we do
is we address the online fraud but
always from the um
ip rights management perspective
so we're always building uh new new
features and new modules and new new
ways to address the
to address our clients and to address
the problem and as i say this doesn't
relate until only to product is it
addresses to all the processes of the uh
organization but what is very important
for us is to focus on execution
as i said we decided to create a new
category
when we started with the technology
the market said oh these guys are doing
online brand protection well why because
there was a category called online brand
protection and they had to put us there
but we never
fit really in the category our value
proposition it was very very hard to
explain to lawyers
so
a lot of them didn't understand it and
of course for small medium companies it
really fit but when we came to talk to
larger
customers that they were educated by our
competitors
they really didn't understand it so
we were really working against that
situation for years until we became big
enough to work on our own category to
change the buyer persona to address
different person in the organization and
to start talking revenue that is what we
really do to help them with revenue then
they understood it and of course what
happened with the cells they exploded so
last year it was a total record in our
company using our new narrative our new
messaging and addressing the new buyer
persona what we did then it was to
invent the new category so of course now
we are the leaders of the new category
because we invented it
that's easier but we are also the
leaders of the of the old one and the
name is digital revenue recovery because
we help
the companies to fight the phantom
competitors and we address the sales
people the marketing people the crows
and so on and they understand it much
better so
if you don't like
who is buying in your company in the
companies in your in the clients
you should think about all of this you
should think about uh
is there other people in the company
that understand better our value
proposition
because this is what we did and we ended
up creating a new category
and the fourth win
is never give up on core values
so listen
you have the values of your company
culture
is what you do when no one is watching
you
and the people you hire
or the people you should be hiring if
you do your homework are people that
they share your values
and those people
are the ones who are going to drive your
company to success so if you change the
values in the middle of the race then
you end up with a team
that doesn't belong to the new culture
doesn't belong to the new values and
this is going to be failure for sure
you should stick to your values
and let me tell you something
one of the values
should be transparency
and why i'm saying this probably three
years ago i would have not said this but
we have this 2020 wonderful 2020 with
the pandemic now we have a new crisis
that it looks that is coming on now the
finance markets are changing
and
you need to tell all of this to your
team you need to tell
these to your team so they are aligned
and they fight for the company and they
fight for you and they're gonna do it
that's for sure but if you only
communicate the good news if you are
only if you're transparent only in the
good times that is not the way to do it
you also have to be transparent not also
not only with your teams but also with
all the stakeholders investors and so on
also in the hard times and let me tell
you something it's even more important
in the in the in the hard times so
transparency should be one of the core
values and of course innovation as i was
saying the rest of them
is up to you but the message here is
that
uh make sure you don't change those
values in the middle of the race because
then you're gonna lose your people so
then your chances to become a high
performance company is are going to be
much worse
and what didn't work
okay
the first thing well many things didn't
work okay as i was saying we made a lot
of mistakes and
if you are leading sas companies
as a ceos
or in the leadership team or whatever
you all know that is a roller coaster
some days are very good some days are
really really really bad and what it
really shows are the nice stories we all
know that is um it says some days are
really unbearable
all of us have some of those and of
course we do make mistakes no
the first one and this is a summary and
that i would say is the summary of many
a mistake is to believe when someone
tells you this can't be done
over the years i've heard this can't be
done so many times
and
you know when it's been a mistake the
few times that i believed they were
right
because if you really believe that
something can be done
it can always be done
you just have to look at a different way
to do it because maybe you're trying to
do it in a way that is impossible so the
right
statement will be this can't be done the
way you're trying but of course it can
be done it can always be done if you
have the gut feeling just
you know
fire that brilliant incredible cro that
you thought that it was going to be
wonderful and it's not that wonderful
or change your go to market model that
is very hard to realize that you're
wrong or
throw away that
product that it was gonna be incredible
and that release was gonna be incredible
and it's uh
and you have to just have the guts to do
it you have to to have the guts to do it
as soon as possible but try to do the
things on a different way as i would i
was saying it's all about the execution
realize and
let me tell you something
don't
hit yes don't hit don't hide don't hide
the pink elephant under the carpet
the pink elephant are those things that
we don't want to talk about
and when you hide a pink elephant under
the carpet you know what happens
the pink elephant grows and grows and
grows and one day
just can't do anything with that big
elephant and it may collapse and the
whole the whole company may collapse
right
so
you have to be brave to look straight
at the things that are not working
analyzing changing and executing
the sooner the better
another mistake
hiring rock stars with big logos on
their resume
okay guys
all the
startups especially sas startups but all
of them i will say we are totally
infatuated with some guys they have big
logos in their cvs in their track record
and we all think oh my god i have to
hire this guy well i've done it several
times
and some of them have been a complete
failure
why because the guys they were not
cultural fit that is what we were saying
before and
you feel the pressure now sometimes you
feel the pressure that is everybody oh
my god she's so good luca or she is so
good look at what she's done in that
company technically is amazing and then
you have this gut feeling there you know
it's like all right there's something
missing never compromise the values or
the culture fit because that wonderful
guy is gonna be toxic for your company
and it's gonna make much more harm than
benefit for your company this will be
uh another another another thing another
advice that for us at least didn't work
now it's much better because for us in
our case our our culture and our values
are a lot about team and a lot about
alignment so
um
you should we we have to really take
care
of that and avoid this kind of mistakes
more
define clear objectives for the whole
company
well
now think about your companies think
about your startups
do you think that you can ask everybody
in your company what is the north star
and they will give you the correct
answer
it's like what is the north star of this
company
or do you think that in your company
everybody has
it's his or her own north star or
everything because then you have a
problem
everybody has to share the same north
star
at least the north star can change it
can't change like uh seven years ago
could be a
one north star and now it's a different
one but it's one and the whole team has
to
know what is that north star if the
answer is different depending on the
person then you have a problem
and once everybody knows the north star
then you can start working with okrs in
the company and okrs in different areas
or other methodologies they work really
really really nice but make sure that
the north star is one otherwise you're
gonna have this team going this way that
team going the other one and not
alignment and alignment is critical
when you are less than 10 million euros
ar or dollars arr is critical if your
teams are not allowed you're going to
end up without back without a company
so make sure that everybody has clear
what is the current north star if it is
growth over 100 great if it is epita
positive next august great too but you
have to choose one and the whole company
has to go there
and the second one that those two for me
are so important the second one is
psychological safety climate
you have to create a climate
in your company where everybody can
stand up
and
do all the suggestions that they want to
do and have critical thinking
because
if you don't have that the only thing
that you have are followers that they're
going to try to to fit in not to make a
lot of noise and well to be nice you
don't want that you want critical
thinking you have you want people that
stand up for what they believe and to
talk and to make suggestions and this is
how you're going to make your company
much better much more innovative and
you're going to have a high performance
team
by the way there is a book that talks
about this
the writer is amy
i can't remember her last name
but it's called something like fearless
organization if you're interested in all
of this because it's really really
interested so
to have a high performance company make
sure you have this ecological safety
climate
and this is it uh what will be the key
takeaways
first one think big i told you about
thinking big about global about teams
that they're they're they're in
different places a lot of nationalities
different verticals think big whatever
is the company that you have
second one always
innovate but with focus
innovation by itself is uh is invention
innovation with execution is what it
works focus on the execution um by the
way
we never abandoned our
our valuable position our focus has
always been
online throughout to fight or life fraud
and listen over the years i heard so
many times oh why don't you do this oh
why don't you do this other thing well
with our product we can do price
comparison of course we can do break
price comparison but this is not what we
do we have to stick to what we do so
focus with innovation is incredible and
third i'm not gonna talk more about
values but never compromise values if
you compromise the values and the
culture of your company you're losing
your company for sure
and this is it and thank you so much
[Applause]
[Music]
you